Third Reich
In 1939,  Certified Public Accountant Wilhelm Schaeffler, an employee of the Dresdner Bank, "acquired" Davistan AG, a Jewish founded textiles company 30 percent below value; the owner, Ernst Frank, had bankrupted in April 1933, because of the boycott and fled Germany. The company was located in Katscher in Oberschlesien. 
In 1941, Wilhelm Schaeffler joined the NSDAP. In 1942, Wilhelm Schaeffler changed the Jewish-sounding name of the company to Wilhelm Schaeffler AG and his brother Georg Schaeffler bought 25 percent of the company by the end of 1942.
During World War II, weapons inspectors were urgently looking for further production sites in Upper Silesia, which was barely accessible to Allied bomber units and by June 1943 the Willi Scheffler AG was on a planning list and threatened to close. Some civilian production companies managed to avoid their shutdown by turning to weapons production or ensuring high productivity and lowest possible consumption of raw materials and finished parts. 
In the summer of 1943, Wilhelm Schaeffler  founded a limited partnership for the production of armaments and textiles (dropping devices for the air force, fire bombs, needle bearings for tanks, Wehrmacht vests, mattresses and coats).
The company exploited thousands of slave labourers from France, Russia and Poland in its plants in German-occupied Poland, which the company admitted only in 2008. Around this time Dr. Jacek Lachendro, a historian at the Auschwitz museum stated that after the war 1.95 long tons (1,980 kg) rolls of fabric made from inmates' hair had been found at Schaeffler factories in Kiertz ( formerly Katscher), and had been used in upholstery in its automotive products. Lachendro stated that analysis of the fabric produced traces of Zyklon B gas. 
The historian Gregor Schöllgen who investigated the history of the company on behalf of the Schaeffler family claimed in 2009 that there was no evidence for a connection to Auschwitz". for which he was strongly criticized in 2011 by his colleagues Tim Schanetzky, Cornelia Rauh and Toni Pierenkemper.